[ADD] make content about storing in cloud storage (#92)
teknologi-umum/blog: content/storing-in-cloud-must-try.md

---
title: Storing in cloud, must try
desc: Why i store my docs in cloud
author: Raymond WP
github: raywp
twitter:
telegram:
date: 2022-03-10
cover: https://www.codebase.co.in/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/Choose-Best-Cloud-Storage-Provider-For-Your-Requirement.jpg
categories:
  - cloud
  - storage
---

## Which cloud?

> Any cloud storage as long as it's not the cloud that can cause rain. Goole Drive, OneDrive, DropBox, etc you name it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any cloud storage as long as it's not the cloud that can cause rain. Google Drive, OneDrive, Dropbox, you name it.
```

Author: remove etc, ok

## Origin

> Once upon a time, when a friend of mine told me "Cloud is new best friend". So i was thinking to give it a try. Back then i thought by separating disk is enough for data backup-ing (Like C: and D:); but in fact, your local disk could be corrupted, your laptop could be stolen, your data could lost. Since at the time i am writing this, I was a final-year student that love my Final Year Project so much, i can't afford to lose my data, **_I need backup_**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once upon a time, a friend of mine told me "Cloud is a new best friend". So I was thinking to give it a try. Back then, I thought separating disks is enough for data backup (Like drive C: and D:); but in fact, your local disk could be corrupted, your laptop could be stolen, your data could be lost. Since at the time I am writing this, I was a final-year student that love my Final Year Project so much, I can't afford to lose my data, **_I need backup_**.
```

> ## What did i do?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What did I do?
```

I connected my Office Apps (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, etc.) to OneDrive
[How to add OneDrive to OfficeApps](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/how-to-add-onedrive-as-a-service-3ae78a39-c0de-4c86-8abc-ad519b6de44e)

> [How to add OneDrive as additional storage](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/sync-files-with-onedrive-files-on-demand-1ab17c60-af03-4c63-a24c-bb1e131f76c9)

Reviewer: Because this is a markdown format, these 3 lines will eventually be one line. If you want a line break, you should have a new line containing nothing. So it's:

```md
Text here

Now we got a new line
```

_"Why OneDrive?"_

> Because as a student, i was granted 1TB of OneDrive space

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because as a student, I was granted 1TB of OneDrive space.
```

_You don't like Microsoft?, here's another option:_
[DropBox + Office Apps](https://help.dropbox.com/installs-integrations/third-party/adding-place-microsoft-office)

> [Google Drive + Office Apps](https://www.coolcatteacher.com/how-to-add-google-drive-to-microsoft-word/)

Reviewer: See my previous comment about new lines.

---

> ##What I feel good about?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What do I feel good about?
```

> ###1. Place-less working

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Place-less working
```

> Ever since I put my important docs such as Thesis, Internship Report and other i-can't-lose document, i can do it from anywhere anytime, because it is sync in the cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ever since I put my important docs such as Thesis, Internship Report, and other I-can't-lose documents, I can do it from anywhere anytime, because it is synced in the cloud.
```

> For example, at home i can do my Thesis with my Desktop PC, but when i go out to somewhere i can bring my laptop along and access the work from the cloud or even accessing it from my mobile phone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, at home, I can do my Thesis with my Desktop PC, but when I go out somewhere I can bring my laptop along and access the work from the cloud or even access it from my mobile phone.
```

> When i store my docs in cloud, i can save it, turn-off my PC and just walk away bringing my laptop because the data is in the cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When I store my docs in the cloud, I can save them, turn off my PC, and just walk away with my laptop because the data is in the cloud.
```

> If i store it in my PC-local-disk, i should copy-paste it to my laptop first before going out, or maybe store it in a flash drive that i should carry around (more stuffs to be carried).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If I store it in my PC's local disk, I should copy-paste it to my laptop first before going out, or maybe store it in a flash drive that I should carry around (more stuff to be carried).
```

> ###2. Safety(?)

Reviewer: To be honest, if you were to write something, you should be certain of what you writing. Don't be ambiguous.

```suggestion
### 2. Safety(?)
```

At least, physical safeness is pretty much guaranteed.
Imagine a scenario, where your house get robbed and Cloud Data Center get robbed.
In your house, you could lost your laptop or PC, leading to lose of data.
In Cloud Data Center, even if they get robbed (_which is not likely to happen_), Cloud Data Center guaranteed duplication or backup of your data to fulfill the Service Level Agreement and Standard Operation Procedure and Disaster Prevention.
This also point back to previous part about flash drive, i might lose my flash drive too, it's small-in-shape.
Some Cloud Storage provider even provide version rollback and history of editing. If you working on document that involved several people, this feature will be useful to hunt who is making bad changes and praise the one that making good changes.

> [Version history in OneDrive](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/restore-a-previous-version-of-a-file-stored-in-onedrive-159cad6d-d76e-4981-88ef-de6e96c93893)

Reviewer: Isn't that should be 

```diff
- Some Cloud Storage provider
+ Some Cloud Storage providers
```

---

##My Concern
###1. I need internet

> Because the docs is in the cloud, of course you need internet to synchronize the data between your local disk and cloud. If i am about go out, i need to make sure i have internet-data to access my data in the cloud (_at least, to download it, and edit it locally, and then upload it again_).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the docs are stored in the cloud, of course you will need internet access to synchronize the data between your local disk and the cloud storage. If I am about go out, I need to make sure that I have internet-data to access my data in the cloud (_at least to download it, edit it locally, and then upload it again_).
```

> ###2. Small-small no problem

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 2. Small-small no problem
```

> Since it require internet connection, i do not recommend to upload big-chunk of data to Cloud storage, like movie or anime collections, because i personally live in an area that do not have high-speed internet speed. That is why, so far i only use it to backup documents, excel file, or power point. Only at certain time i need to share video of work or pictures, that i upload it to cloud storage.
> Internet is not the only problem, price is also the problem. Some cloud storage offer 1-15 GB of storage at free tier. This might not be a problem if you only use cloud storage for storing documents, excel, or power point, but if you use cloud storage as a backup solution, you will need more than 15GB especially if you are storing videos or pictures.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since it requires internet connection, I do not recommend uploading a big-chunk of data, like movies or anime collections, to the Cloud Storage because I personally live in an area that doesn't have a high-speed internet speed. That is why, so far I only use it to backup documents, Excel files, or PowerPoint slides. I only upload videos or pictures to the Cloud Storage when I want to share it.
Internet is not the only problem, the price is also the problem. Some Cloud Storage offer 1-15 GB of storage at free tier. This might not be a problem if you only use it to store documents, Excel files, or PowerPoint slides, but if you use Cloud Storage as a backup solution, you will need more than 15 GB, especially if you are storing videos or pictures.
```

---

> ##Conclusion

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Conclusion
```

> So far, i use cloud storage to store my important document in hope it will be physically safer and less chance of corrupted. For storing videos and pictures i still use local disk (HDD or SSD). But if you want to back-up some precious memories to cloud, it's okay, your choice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So far, I use cloud storage to store my important documents in hope they will be physically safer and less chance of getting corrupted. For storing videos and pictures I still use local disk (HDD or SSD). If you want to back-up some precious memories to cloud then it's also okay, it's your choice at the end of the day.
```

Reviewer: ```diff
- I use cloud storage to store my important documents in hope they  will be...
+ I use cloud storage to store important documents hoping they will be...
```

> What do you think about cloud storage? let's discuss below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What do you think about Cloud Storage? Let's discuss below.
```
